# Enabling Cinematic Intelligence Using XGB Regressor
The film industry is one of the biggest revenues generating commercial institution in the world. Excessive money is invested to reap the benefits of a successful cinema. While handling so much capital, it is important to make smart business decisions and invest where returns are imminent. Lack of returns from a specific movie can be detrimental to careers of multiple professionals. Handling such big decisions could become easier when we introduce Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, along with Business Intelligence into the picture. Here’s where our project comes into play.

We intend to build a Business Intelligence tool which can take in data such as Film Producer, cast, directors, runtime and genre to classify whether the movie will turn out to be successful or not. This tool will help investors save their money and the film directors to make smart decisions on the cast and the specifications of the movie. Upon referring to the results, clarity can be attained on the verdict of the decisions being taken.

The chosen dataset is a subset from the IMDb database to train and test our model. Using machine learning, we will teach the model to make near to accurate predictions on the success of a movie. These results can be visualised using BI tools to offer easy readability and convenience. Using the tools available, the user interface will be easy to operate and results can be obtained quickly upon insertion of data.
Our model will also display alternate cast and crew combinations which can lead to a successful movie if the verdict for the movie details entered by the user turns out to be disaster.

As a bonus, this same software can also be used by individuals to predict the outcome of a movie and to make the decision on pre-booking tickets for a specific movie. This way it becomes a win-win situation for everyone in the movie industry, be it the producers or the consumers. This can help bring up the overall quality of movies being produced and ensure less wastage of resources and capital on movies which are not supposed to work out. 

